---
id: generate-go-code
title: 10 Generate Go Code
---

So far, we've created a new [module](../bsr/overview.md#module), pushed it up to the [BSR](../bsr/overview.md), interacted
with autogenerated documentation, and added a dependency on the `buf.build/googleapis/googleapis`
module. Next, we'll implement the `PetStoreService` as a Go application and use other powerful
Buf features.

Before we continue, move to the `start` directory again. If you're coming from the [previous
step](add-a-dependency), you can simply run the following command:

```terminal
$ cd ..
```

We'll also reset the `gen` directory so that we generate everything from a clean slate.
This is especially relevant since we removed the `google/type/datetime.proto` definition from
the module itself.

```terminal
$ rm -rf gen
```

The `start` directory should look like the following:

```sh
start/
├── buf.gen.yaml
└── petapis
    ├── buf.lock
    ├── buf.md
    ├── buf.yaml
    └── pet
        └── v1
            └── pet.proto
```

## 10.1 Setup Go {#setup-go}

Install `go` by visiting [this link](https://golang.org/doc/install). If you don't have any experience with Go,
that's OK! We'll cover everything you need to know here.

## 10.2 Install plugins {#install-plugins}

We'll be using the `protoc-gen-go` and `protoc-gen-go-grpc` plugins to generate code with `buf generate`,
so you'll need to install them:

```terminal
$ go install google.golang.org/protobuf/cmd/protoc-gen-go@latest
$ go install google.golang.org/grpc/cmd/protoc-gen-go-grpc@latest
```

You will also need to update your `PATH` so that `buf` can find the plugins:

```terminal
$ export PATH="$PATH:$(go env GOPATH)/bin"
```

## 10.3 Edit your `buf.gen.yaml` {#edit-your-bufgenyaml}

Edit the [`buf.gen.yaml`](../configuration/v1/buf-gen-yaml.md) file so that it configures the
`protoc-gen-go` and `protoc-gen-go-grpc` plugins (and their options) like so:

```yaml title="buf.gen.yaml" {3-14}
 version: v1
 plugins:
-  - name: cpp
-    out: gen/proto/cpp
-  - name: java
-    out: gen/proto/java
+  - name: go
+    out: gen/proto/go
+    opt: paths=source_relative
+  - name: go-grpc
+    out: gen/proto/go
+    opt:
+      - paths=source_relative
+      - require_unimplemented_servers=false
```

In short, these edits can be explained by the following:

 * Execute the `protoc-gen-go` plugin with the `paths=source_relative` option, and place its output in the
   `gen/proto/go` directory.
 * Execute the `protoc-gen-go-grpc` plugin with the `paths=source_relative` and `require_unimplemented_servers=false`
   options, and place its output in the `gen/proto/go` directory.

## 10.4 Generate Go/gRPC Client and Server Stubs {#generate-stubs}

Now that you have a `buf.gen.yaml` with the `protoc-gen-go[-grpc]` plugins configured, you can generate the code
required to implement the `PetStoreService` API with Go.

Simply run the following command (targeting the version of the module we pushed up to the BSR earlier):

```terminal
$ buf generate buf.build/$BUF_USER/petapis
```

> If a `--template` is not explicitly specified, the `buf.gen.yaml` found in the current directory is used by default.

If successful, you'll notice a couple new files in the `gen/proto/go` directory (as configured by the `buf.gen.yaml`
created above):

```sh
start/
├── buf.gen.yaml
├── gen
│   └── proto
│       └── go
│           └── pet
│               └── v1
│                   ├── pet.pb.go
│                   └── pet_grpc.pb.go
└── petapis
    ├── buf.lock
    ├── buf.md
    ├── buf.yaml
    └── pet
        └── v1
            └── pet.proto
```
